Work around broken `isPure` sanity check for constants accessed through getters (#16361)
ethereum/solidity: Changelog.md

### 0.8.33 (unreleased)

Language Features:

Compiler Features:

> 

Reviewer: This should not be in the PR. We clean up the changelog when we set the date.

Reviewer 2: It should be and has been - https://github.com/argotorg/solidity/pull/16357

Author: ok

Reviewer: > It should be and has been - https://github.com/argotorg/solidity/pull/16357

That's a separate thing. We usually have 2 such PRs: one immediately after the release to set the version. And another just before release to set the date and clean up the changelog.

Reviewer 2: The one in question was merged before you left this comment, thus 'concluding' the 0.8.32 release, and added the 0.8.33 version to Cmakelists, as well as the changelog skeleton. Radek then rebased on top of develop resolved the conflict with his 0.8.33 (unreleased) section that he added. So all working as intended.

### 0.8.33 (unreleased)

Bugfix:

> * TypeChecker: Fix ICE when accessing constant variable defined in an external contract.

Reviewer 2: You'll have to do this again once https://github.com/argotorg/solidity/pull/16357 is merged (i.e. resolve conflicts).

> * TypeChecker: Fix ICE when accessing constant variable defined in an external contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TypeChecker: Fix internal error when accessing constant variable defined in an external contract.
```

Also, it's not just the constant. The fact that it's behind a getter is also significant. But I'm still looking into this, in a moment I'll be able to give a more accurate description of the issue.

We are probably checking `isPure()` on the wrong thing, because we explicitly excluded external functions (which should include getters) from the check.

Reviewer: I think it's basically this:

```suggestion
* TypeChecker: Fix internal error when accessing getters of constant variables.
```

I.e. we never explicitly mark external functions as `isPure`, so they get `false` by default. But a getter of a constant is a weird special case, because its `referencedDeclaration` is pointing to a variable definition, not a function definition. So it gets `isPure = true` as constants. Which I suspect was not intended.

https://github.com/argotorg/solidity/blob/ebbd65e568ccc79cfaaa5814a7d2a92b70ddd3ae/libsolidity/analysis/TypeChecker.cpp#L3325-L3331

This means that getters of constants are the only case affected, at least by this bit of buggy code. There theoretically could be more, unrelated cases lurking, so for now it's best to remove the assert and first get this thoroughly tested.
